Category Trees

A category tree is a hierarchical structure

that organizes products into logical, thematic groups,

from general to increasingly specific.

The ETIM-Mapper application allows you to define category trees and assign products to categories.

This facilitates product searching and helps with product information management.

To create a new category tree, assign it a unique identifier.

It’s also a good idea to provide a name for the tree 
– in every language available to the user.

Additionally, you can select attributes that will be required for all products within this tree.

After creating the tree, 
let’s create several top-level categories.

First, we add a category with the ID “electric”.

The line below shows in which tree the current category is being created

and what its parent category is.

A slash indicates a first-level category.

Similarly, let’s create the "lamps" category.

Next, we add the "blowers" category.

The “Set after” field lets you control the order of categories at the same level.

You can select attributes for products in a specific category.

In this example, we assign the “color” attribute to the lamps category.

In edit mode, you can define additional fields 
for category presentation

– including SEO information and a web section 
with a title, description, and image.

These can be used to enrich how categories are displayed online.

Let’s now add another top-level category: hvac.

At this point, we have created four top-level categories.

When hovering over any of them,

you can edit (pencil icon),

add a subcategory (plus icon),

cut and insert elsewhere (scissors icon),

or permanently delete it (X icon).

Let’s move the "lamps" category.

Click the scissors icon, select the destination category, and then click the arrow icon to insert the category in the new position.

Now, chose a subcategory button.

Do the same for blowers – placing it under electric as well.

For hvac, let’s add two subcategories: using the plus icon.

The first one will concern pipe clamps. 

And the second – mounting kits.

We’ve now built a two-level category tree. 

Each category can have one or more subcategories – and nesting can go as deep as needed.

Use "Expand All" button to extend branches or use "Collapse All" to collapse branches.

Now let’s assign products to categories.

It can be done for an individual product in the category tree tab, 
by selecting the tree and the desired category.

A product can belong to multiple categories – even parent categories.

Bulk assignment is also available.

To do this, display the column corresponding to the category tree in the "All products" view.

Let’s do this for the tree named "test_tree".

In the "Arrangement of columns" option, make this column visible and move it to the beginning of the list for better visibility.

Select all lamp products and assign them to the lamps category.

Next, filter for product with the word “pipe clamp” 
and assign them to pipe clamps.

And filter fans by the French name “ventilateur” – and assign them to blowers.

Once products are categorized,

you can easily filter them by category.

Whether it's a simple single-category filter like lamps,

or more advanced search criteria combining multiple categories.

Now, let’s look at how to export and import category trees using Excel files.

When exported, we see our top-level categories – electric and hvac – and their subcategories,

including the “color” attribute under lamps.

Previously, we defined categories in the application.

 Now let’s define a category in Excel. 

Let it be: antennas, with electric as parent category, with a required attribute MT (mounting time).

Save the file as user_tree.xlsx.

Now, import this updated tree definition into the application.

The category tree now includes a new branch – "antennas", imported from the Excel file.

 
Category trees can also be saved or loaded via API

– allowing for integration with external systems or automated updates.

Since “color” was previously a global attribute, we’ll now disable its global scope, so it only applies to lamps.

As a result, a product like a coaxial cable won’t show this attribute...

But a lightbulb will.

Attributes selected for the entire tree or in individual categories form the basis

for calculating product completeness in the context of the category tree.

In our case, no requirements have been specified for most products, and the only required

attribute is color in the lamps category

Each product assigned to this category will be considered complete in the context of user_tree only if it contains a value for color.

Only one of the products does not have a value for this attribute, so its completion is zero.

This product is a virtual product representing a group of lamps of different colors,

so it does not have a specific color itself.

In this way, we can check whether products have the required attribute values in each category,

which helps maintain consistent, high-quality product data.

Category trees help keep your product data well-organized,

improve searchability, and ensure better control over product completeness.